When I say the word money to you, what do you feel? For most people I talk to, their relationship with money is complicated. What comes up a lot is stress and guilt and even shame. A lot of us wonder, is it too late to change your relationship with money? No, it's not too late. You can take control of your money right now. Now is the time to take control because this is not the economy your parents grew up with. 

Nobody is staying at a job for 40 years and retiring with a pension. Inflation is in the news every single day. AI is shaping which jobs even exist. Housing is historically unaffordable. And what are we supposed to do about it? How are we supposed to thrive with our money and make it work for us when so many people are just trying to survive? 

I grew up the son of immigrants in a middle class family near Sacramento, California in a household where every dollar mattered. Growing up we knew frugality because we had to. My parents would find money for anything related to school but we hardly ever ate out. As I got older, as I went to college, I became fascinated by human psychology and how money affects us. I was watching these two topics come together. So I decided to build a system that anyone could use to take control of their money. 

I started out writing a blog, treating it like an experimental laboratory where I could test my ideas and I found an audience that really resonated. In my mid-20s, people started paying attention when I wrote the New York Times bestseller I Will Teach You to Be Rich and that was just the beginning. And as I grew my business, I learned the skills of automating my money and investing and spending money meaningfully, sharing my lessons with millions of people. 

I hosted Netflix's money show How to Get Rich and I've written another bestselling book, Money for Couples. And for 20 years, I've been showing millions of people how their money and psychology work together. Money doesn't have to be scary. It can be empowering. I learned that money could be transformative. 

I'm going to teach you this system that I used to reach financial independence. It's the same system that I've taught to millions of people from freelancers to everyday people to CEOs. This class is divided into 11 short, powerful episodes. You can watch them in order or jump straight to what matters most to you. 

Are you freaked out about retirement? Is it smarter to buy or rent your house? Do you have kids and you want to know how to talk to them about money? I'll also be working with real people who have real money problems like yours to help you realize you are not alone. 

I am $15,000 in debt. 

I do think you avoid money a little bit. 

You want to own. 

I don't know. 

I'm just as the example. 

Tell me what you want. 

What do you want? 

To be honest, I don't have that answer right now. 

I don't deal in academic theories. I focus on what actually works. These are lessons from my own experience and from millions of people I've helped on their financial wellness journey. I spend less than one hour every month on my finances and I want to show you exactly how to do the same thing with yours. 

This is about finally playing offense with your money to take control of it. When you take this class, you'll walk away with an actual plan for using your money consciously, including knowing how to spend money guilt free on what you love, plus paying off debt, investing and setting up systems that run themselves. You'll learn how to talk to your partner and kids about money. And most importantly, I'll give you downloadable tools in the class resources guide so you have the confidence to know you're finally in control. 

Even if you're starting from zero, even if you have debt, I will show you how to automatically save and invest and spend money on the things you love. Today you're going to put both hands on the wheel and become the driver of your own financial life. Now, let's get to it. 

I'm Rameed Sethi and this is MasterClass. 

Hey, how you doing? 

How's it going? 

Rameed. 

Nice to meet you. 

Good to meet you. 

Of course. 

Thanks for having me. 

So tell me a little bit about your financial status. 

I've been a freelancer, a professional freelancer in advertising and marketing for over a decade now, which, you know, comes with it a certain amount of freedom, but also I think a lot more insecurity. 

How do you feel talking about money? 

Well, I'm always uncomfortable around it. So this will be fun. My dad is from Iraq. He came here with like 200 bucks in his pocket. He has always taught us to play it safe and become a doctor or a lawyer. And I've always been this little hustler. I was always selling candy. I was always like selling concert tickets, but I wasn't allowed to dream beyond those career choices. So I think that's kind of what I grew up with. Taking risks to advance finances is scary. Thriving financially is scary. We just survive. 

Survive with money. That's the bottom. That's the floor. Or at the highest level, you become a doctor. 

Correct. 

And that is the range of financial success. 100%. Do you believe that? 

Absolutely not. 

Jared, what about you? When I say the word money, what feelings come up for you immediately? 

Immediately, ugh. 

What was that sigh? 

That sigh is just, here we go again. We're talking about it. I would love to not have that feeling. 

A lot of people think that if I just had $10,000 more, I would finally feel good about money. But unless you specifically work on your feelings with money, you're going to keep feeling that way. 

In this episode, I'm going to show you how to stop feeling bad about money. Overwhelmed, guilty, ashamed. Money is emotional. So it's okay if you feel scared with money. It's okay if you feel intimidated by it. That's okay. 

There are these terms like 401k, compound interest, debt. And no matter how sophisticated of an investor you are, many of us don't really know how they work. But we suspect that we're doing something wrong. I want to change that for you. You can really craft your rich life. We're going to learn about the invisible scripts that we have with money. These deep beliefs that you might not yet be aware of. And then we're going to learn how to change them. 

I don't know if I ever stayed at a hotel until I was in college. And that's because my family did not travel a lot. But when we did, we would stay in a motel. That's what we could afford. We would drive up to the motel and my dad would always say the same thing. Stay in the van. Okay. And then we would go into the room. And the first thing he would do is pick up the phone and say, can you send some more towels? How about like five more? And they were like, sir, this motel room is for two people, not for six people. He's like, just send the towels. 

I'm not encouraging anybody to stuff your entire family in one motel room. But that's kind of what we had to do. The way that I grew up with money left some pretty lasting imprints on me. And I call them invisible scripts. These are these beliefs we have that are so deep inside of us that they're often invisible to us. One of the invisible scripts that I received growing up was those people are trying to rip you off. They're just there to take your money. And the belief was, if it's expensive, it's probably a ripoff. And I think a lot of us grew up with some message like this. 

It wasn't a topic of conversation in my household growing up. 

We'll say that. Not that we felt like we were lacking it, but it was just kind of one of those things. Midwestern father, Puerto Rican mother, we just didn't talk about it. 

Midwestern, Puerto Rican, okay, how does that show up with money? What did they tell you? Money is for adults, not for kids? 

Yeah, pretty much. If they said that at all. 

Think back to your childhood. What were some of the unspoken or even spoken messages about money that you absorbed? Think about these, and I'm going to guide you into a series of questions to look back at how you grew up with money. As I walk you through these, write your answers down somewhere with a pad of paper or on your phone or whatever works for you. 

In my family, money was always fill in the blank. 

Fill in the blank. People who have money are... 

If I spend money on myself, I feel... 

I learn that money is... 

One thing I still believe about money, even if I know it's not true, is... 

What do you notice about the things that you wrote down? For most of us, we grew up with one simple invisible script. We can't afford it. Or maybe it's cousin, money doesn't grow on trees. They both say the same thing. Those beliefs are so deep in us, often from childhood, that they echo in time for 10 years, 20 years, 50 plus years. 

Money affects the way that we see ourselves. It affects the way that we think about the possibilities for our futures. So I want to flip the script from feeling behind, feeling overwhelmed and intimidated by money, to feeling calm and in control. As I started to talk to more and more people about money, I started to see very clear patterns. I discovered there are four money types. 

Which of the four money types are you? 

You're going to learn it and you're going to learn what to do about it. 

The avoider uses a series of conscious and unconscious techniques to avoid money. They don't like to open bills, they don't like to open emails about money. They go, I'll deal with it later. And it can actually work for a while. Your cable is still on, you still got internet. Unfortunately, by avoiding money, it will catch up with you. And worst of all, you are actually living a smaller life than you could. 

Do you avoid money? 

I don't avoid money, no. 

I thought you told me you had your head in the sand. Dealing with it. 

I don't avoid money, but dealing with it the correct way, I think I drag my feet on that for sure. Alice, you want to add anything? I don't want to speak for you, but I do think you avoid money a little bit. 

I'm a little bit more heads on with it. I want to tackle it. 

You're the money person. 

Yes. 

So in order to change from being an avoider to someone who takes control, you've got to make a few changes. The first thing an avoider can do is to look at the spending that they are already doing and just write it down. No shame, just hey, what did I spend in the last month? But the important thing is to send a signal to yourself. Wow, I'm logging into this credit card account, I'm downloading it, and I'm looking at it. It's okay if you start to sweat. The avoider makes small steady changes by simply looking at where their spending is happening, and then we can work on other steps. 

Worryers worry about money. Am I going to have enough? Am I behind? Is it too late? Oh my God, I actually got money. Why am I still worrying about money? Worryers usually started worrying about money when they were kids because they saw their parents worrying about money. So if you are a worrier, there's a pretty good chance you saw some scarcity happening when you were a kid. One thing that you can do is to look at the spending when you were a kid. One thing you can do today is ask yourself, when I talk about money, what do I say? When I look at money, how do I feel? Put those aside now and ask yourself this. When I talk about money in the future, how do I want to talk about it? When I look at money, how do I want to feel? Write them down, make an intention, and soon you will find that worrying is not the only way to relate to money, it's one way. 

All right, you optimizer nerds, freaking spreadsheet freaks sitting here with your spreadsheet in 40 other tabs right now. Ramit Sethi is about to talk about compound interest. Is he going to use the real or nominal return rate? You guys really need to get a life, first of all. And I say that because I am a reformed optimizer. I love to plan, I love running a spreadsheet. I'm a nerd. The problem is if I was left to my own devices, I would just live in a spreadsheet. I know, it's so fun to sit and plan for all risk management contingencies and look at this system I build and everyone should be thankful for my high-yield savings account. 

All right, fine, maybe. Being an optimizer can help you, I will agree. The problem is if you take it to its logical extreme, optimizers become unbearably cheap and not that fun to be around. They're always living for the future. They usually do not want to spend money on anything. In a way, being an optimizer has served me. It's helped me plan for the future and manage my risk. The problem is if I just kept doing what I was doing, I would just live for the future. So yes, you can save. Yes, you can invest. But optimizers, the biggest thing for you is to realize that you have probably won the game that you are playing. You already know exactly how much you're going to have at retirement. You know exactly your tax rates and optimizers next chapter is to really look inside and ask yourself, what do I love? You have the capability to start using your money because you already won. 

The dreamer, for the dreamer, success is always right around the corner. It's the next gig. It's the next deal. It's this next thing. If everything goes right, it's all going to be fine. Dreamers typically find themselves involved in schemes and scams, multi-level marketing, some crypto scam online. And truthfully, most dreamers are probably not watching this. Dreamers don't like to engage with calm, long-term money advice. In fact, they even have phrases they use. Oh, I'm not doing that nine to five thing. That's for losers. That nine to five person is making four times what you make right now. Maybe you could learn something from them. They don't want to be put in a box. Truthfully, if you are a dreamer, I'm actually really glad you're here. The way to start living a rich life is by taking small steps today. 

I want to give a piece of brutal advice to the dreamer. If you write down all the gigs and all the deals that you're working on and you objectively rank them and you say, that one's made me zero dollars, that one's made me $170, et cetera, and you just look at it, you go, why am I doing all this stuff? Why don't I just pick one and excel at it, it will become very clear what your next step is. 

By now, you've taken a look in the mirror and you're starting to understand where some of your feelings about money come from. But what you learn from your invisible scripts is that you could shine a light on those and then you can decide which scripts you want to keep and which new ones you want to add. You also learn more about your money type, whether you are an avoider, a worrier, an optimizer, or a dreamer. Please know, you can change your money type, but most importantly, what you're learning is you can take control of your relationship with money.